what steps do you go through right to
actually make your business from going
nowhere have to start making money and
the asset because most people don't do
that is to actually get feedback
I am Kate Bowman and we are talking
small business strategies and I am so
excited to be joined by one of my
favorite entrepreneurs Neil Patel he is
the co-founder of crazy egg kissmetrics
hello bar he is one of the most
influential people online and he's also
been recognized as one of the top 100
entrepreneurs by President Barack Obama
I could go on and on but all you really
need to know is that he's kind of a big
deal so Neil thank you so much for
taking the time
thanks for having me so Neil with for
for small businesses
important is
right and then just having a web
presence for the local small business
not not the big guys that are trying to
sell technology but just the local guys
it's very important from a local coffee
shop to the local pizzeria it's very
important right you can be having
plumbing services by having a website
you will get more business because
nowadays when people are looking for
something they're typing on their mobile
devices saying hey uh plumber services
in Miami Florida or wherever it means
without having a website you're not
going to be found for all that stuff
so
landing pages versus like a full-on site
like I know some businesses get really
excited because they're buying tons of
domain names and they have all these
different landing pages like what are
your thoughts on having a ton of
different little micro sites or landing
pages versus just one website
as a small business I would actually
just focus on one website it doesn't
have to have too many pages if you just
see a one-page site or two or three page
site and they go from there make sure
you're also submitting to all the
localized directories yo City search
right uh Google Maps or Google listing
by being in all those places you'll do
better over time
and on someone's website what are the
metrics they should be looking at every
month
the metrics that they should be looking
at is just overall traffic so if it's
going up and it's going up from people
within your region so Google analytics
will show you where people are coming
from so assuming it's within your region
and your traffic's going up you're doing
better and better as a small business
so what is and I know you talk a lot
about this on your blog but what's a
really quick way for some of these local
businesses to start generating traffic
that things that they might not be doing
right now go to getlisted.org and the
domain name for it to somewhere else but
go to getlisted.org it still works and
you can submit your business to all the
localized places that can drive business
to your small Mom and Pop Shop
some um and you're really big
content marketing
marketing using infographics and you say
that they've helped to drive a lot of
traffic to your websites so how
important is visual content and why
should businesses consider this as part
of their content marketing strategy
yeah Bishop hunting is huge if you can
create something that explains something
complex or lengthy in a short visual
helps people understand things more
clearly you'll do well
so I feel like there's a lot of really
great tools and I actually read one of
your blog posts where you actually
showcased a lot of different tools that
you can create your own visual content
pretty easily and I'll be sure to link
that back here because it was a great
post as so many of yours are but what I
find that there's a lot of tools to to
create some of these pieces of content
but there's like how do you recommend
people come up with the creative ideas
because I feel like there's a lot of
people out there saying be creative and
speak to your target audience but like
how do people like how would you
recommend even coming up with how do you
to be creative type thing keywords
related to your industry and they'll
tell you the most popular topics within
industry then from there you can be like
all right can I actually create any
visual Pizza content based on these
ideas and then if you can then great you
now have idea that will resonate with
people within your industry
for those
small business owners or want to be
entrepreneurs are that are looking to
kind of that have an idea what are some
interesting ways to kind of test an idea
online
just throw something up very minimally
uh drive a bit of pay traffic to like
Facebook or Twitter it's not taking
something you can spend like 20 bucks
and get some paid traffic 50 bucks and
you'll see what happens
so I know you get asked a ton of
questions from business owners so two
things one what is the most frequently
Asked question you get and two what are
people not asking you that you think
they they should be
yeah so uh the first one was was when I
get asked most people
the first one is how do I start business
and
you start a business by just going out
there you go like register them you can
go to the set of posting pop of a site
and get started there is no like tricks
and you need to take these steps you
don't really know what happens is you
pop something up and you learn and you
keep iterating right because you get
feedback so and then the next question
is what people should be asking me that
they don't ask me
is what steps do you go through right to
actually make your business from going
nowhere to have to start making money
and the answer because most people don't
do it is to actually get feedback so you
can get feedback from devices like
followers Survey Monkey uh looking at
analytics and surveys without the survey
you won't know how to adjust your
business and keep iterating it right
because it's not about what you want
it's not what your customers want
[Music]
do you have a marketing pet peeve like
when you see someone do something online
that you're like oh my gosh what are you
doing
so you're such an amazing thinker Neil I
I saw an interview with you and you were
talking about life hacking and you've
hacked dating and finding a finding a a
driver with it like really cost
effective way because I know you're very
frugal
um and even you joked about having a mom
someone that comes in and does your
cooking and cleaning and laundry so for
business owners do how what suggestions
do you give for people to kind of come
up with unique different ways of solving
their challenges and problems
just be creative so anytime you have a
problem
think outside the box usually you're
like oh well I can't solve it because
it's too expensive or it takes too much
time those are the normal solutions that
everyone looks at what are the unique
Creative Solutions that you may not be
thinking about right you have to change
your mindset and once you change your
mindset and you start being more
creative and then if you can't come up
with ideas ask some friends on hey what
are some creative approaches that I
couldn't potentially using to solve x y
and z problems you'll then end up coming
up with solutions that could potentially
work
what um what apps do you can you not
live without
I use Gmail a lot I use Uber a lot uh
uh I use a calendar app that's really it
I don't really just team the apps yeah
yeah watch TV party
a lot of sports I love basketball
football basketball's just over right
but I love sports
and what is the best advice that a
mentor has given you
Focus it's from the add I turned into
new things or too many ideas like just
focus on one that works and keep trying
to grow it and once you've plateaued and
you can't grow it anymore thanks man
I love that there's so much content out
there especially when it comes to
marketing on strategies and tactics that
small business owners can use so how do
you stay focused with especially with
the business owner that's looking online
and searching and they're seeing one
company do this and one company do that
and and it's like they're pulling their
hair out not knowing which direction to
go like how do you suggest they stay
focused on something that's actually
going to move their business forward and
not feel so overwhelmed just ignore
everything
what you're mainly doing is growing and
still working then ignore all the other
ideas that you may have because there's
not enough time in the day just focus on
what's already working
and you love to work I know why like why
do what do you love best about what you
do
it's fun I really am passionate about
marketing
and it's like if you don't really love
what you're doing you're gonna end up
quitting but if you do what we're doing
not only will you do it longer more
hours but you won't quit and time is
what really can help you succeed me a
ton of other people the mark suckers the
world that Elon Musk they're way more
successful than but if you look at
everyone it's not like we came out of
you know day one out of the gates and
we're successful we all went through
struggles but time is what helps us
become more successful because you learn
from your mistakes and you learn what
not to do
awesome well Neil you are amazing and I
love every one of your posts I just like
like store them away the infographics
you create the content you create just
you help so many people and I love
telling everyone about you and making
them go and check out your content so
thank you for all that you do for small
businesses out there you are you're just
awesome I just adore you so thank you so
much for taking the time to chat with me
I very much appreciate it
thanks for having me